---
title: Introduction to Appliation Security
---

Many web sites, web applications, and web servers receive and process
requests from outside a company's protected internal network. As a
result, they are vulnerable to a variety of malicious attacks including
SQL injections, cross-site scripting, and application layer distributed
denial of service (DDoS).

This exposure poses a threat to your infrastructure and the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data delivered by
those resources over the Internet. These types of attacks can result in
unauthorized access to content, the loss of personally identifiable
information (PII), and the dissemination of private/copyrighted
information.

Our WAF service provides a layer of security between many of these
security threats and your external web infrastructure. WAF increases
security by monitoring, detecting, and preventing application layer
attacks. It inspects inbound HTTP/HTTPS traffic against reactive and
proactive security policies and blocks malicious activity in-band and on
a real-time basis. Additionally, it may restrict the flow of site
traffic with the intention of:

-   Diverting malicious or inadvertent DDoS traffic.
-   Preventing a customer origin server from being overloaded.

There are various layers to the protection provided to an origin server
via WAF, such as:

-   Inherent protection from DDoS attacks.
    -   Our worldwide presence establishes an imposing and extensive
        barrier between an origin server and malicious traffic,
        regardless of whether it consists of a high-volume HTTP
        `GET` flood attack or a slow DDoS attack.

-   Protection from application layer attacks.
    -   Enable a comprehensive set of threat detection measures for the
        purpose of identifying malicious traffic. These measures define
        the types of application layer attacks that will be detected,
        such as:

        -   Protocol validation
        -   Malicious client identification
        -   Generic attack signatures
        -   Known vulnerabilities signatures
        -   Trojan/backdoor access
        -   Denial of Service

-   Filtering out unwanted traffic by screening for a custom delivery
    profile.

    Traffic that doesn't meet the requirements defined in this HTTP
    delivery profile may be blocked before it even reaches our core
    network.

-   Establishing traffic restrictions to block malicious traffic.

    Use a whitelist, blacklist, or accesslist to restrict traffic by by
    ASN, country, IP address, referrer, URL, user agent, HTTP method,
    media type, and/or file extension.

-   Filtering out traffic generated by basic bots to prevent them from
    scraping your site, carding, spamming your forms, launching DDoS
    attacks, and committing ad fraud.

-   Establishing limits for the rate at which traffic may be directed to
    your web servers.

## How Does It Work? {/*how-does-it-work*/}

The following diagram highlights how traffic is screened before it is
processed for delivery. The distributed nature of our worldwide network
provides an additional layer of protection to origin servers. Finally,
an intermediate caching layer may be enabled on an origin server as an
additional measure to prevent web servers from being overloaded. This
capability is known as Origin Shield. Please contact your CDN account
manager for more information.

![](/images/app_security/overview.png)

###### More Information {/*more-information*/}

-   [Tutorial: Securing Traffic via WAF
    Tutorial](../Getting_Started/Web-Security-Tutorial.htm)

-   [Frequently Asked
    Questions](../Knowledge_Base/FAQ/FAQ-Web-Security.htm)

-   [Configuration](Configuration.htm)

    -   [Access Rules](Access-Rules.htm)
    -   [Rate Rules](Rate-Rules.htm)
    -   [Bot Rules](Bot-Rules.htm)
    -   [Custom Rules](Custom-Rules.htm)
    -   [Managed Rules](Managed-Rules.htm)
    -   [Security Application Manager](SAM.htm)
    -   [Best Practices](Best-Practices.htm)

-   [Monitoring Threats](Threats_Dashboard.htm)

-   [Monitoring Rate Limited Requests](Rates-Dashboard.htm)

-   [Monitoring Rate Limit Enforcement
    Instances](Rate-Enforcement-Dashboard.htm)
